---
layout: post
title:  "Cyber's CCDC Team Wins Big"
date:   2019-03-03
excerpt: "Cyber @ UCI wins Third Overall in Western Region and First for Defense"
image: "/images/ccdc-champ.jpg"
---
### Third Overall & First in Defense!

This past week, Cyber's CCDC team just [won Third Place](https://twitter.com/wrccdc/status/1102297674403831808)
in the Western Region of the Collegiate Cybersecurity Competition, competing with top Universities from
California, Arizona, and Nevada for a post at the national competition.
We were also featured in a [UCI ICS News Article](https://www.ics.uci.edu/community/news/view_news?id=1529) for the achievement.


#### What does that mean?

Our CCDC team scored well on all targets of our 'business', keeping services up,
responding well to customer input, and performing on our business objectives. We area
especially proud of our number one ranking for defense, meaning we did the most
to defer our attackers from our network!



### What did We Learn
Victories are always an inflection point for reflection. Cyber @ UCI has come a long
way since our inception several years ago, but that does not mean the work ends here.

In a [LinkedIn post](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/micah-raney_teamwork-teaching-training-activity-6508537449646559232-Wzw9),
I shared a bit more of my learning and experience on the CCDC recruitment, training, and competition process.

<div class="box">
  <p>
  WOW!<br><br>

  Cyber @ UCI's CCDC Team just won 3rd Place at the Western Regional Cybersecurity Competition, facing Universities from California, Arizona, and Nevada. We also won 3rd best for service up-time, as well as first for Blue Team/defense overall.
  <br>

  As the Linux Captain, it has definitely been a wild ride over the past year. There is just so much to learn, and breaking that down and utilizing all our strengths to build a cohesive team definitely isn't easy. Primarily, I took away lessons in teamwork, teaching, and training.
  <br><br>

  <b>Teamwork</b><br>
  The live environment does not lend well to one-man shows. You have to trust your team to do the best and jump in there.
  <br><br>

  <b>Teaching</b><br>
  In our team, every member also had to become a teacher. We worked hard to make our team a place open to that teaching process.
  <br><br>

  <b>Training</b><br>
  Unless you're intentional about training, it does not happen. Our final training regimen was focused intentional, and ultimately effective.
  <br><br>

  I am SO proud of the team, and all the work they put in over these past two years. We've put in hundreds of hours of staring at man pages, debugging systems, struggling over integrations, and preparing for this competition. Thank you to all the volunteers that made this event happen!
  #teamwork #teaching #training #cybersecurity #wrccdc #ccdc
  <br><br>
  </p>

  (Originally posted on LinkedIn)

</div>


### What's Next?
The CCDC coordinating team has compiled a report on what went right, and more importantly,
what went wrong in training for the 2018-19 season. Those inputs as well as team feedback
are being strongly considered as we revamp for the upcoming season. Stay tuned for more details
as the club drives forwards into next year!


\- *Micah Raney \| 2018-19 Linux Team Captain & CCDC Coordinator*
